hi everyone my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert IELTS teachers at e2 language
comm what are we gonna do in this live
class we're going to look at the
agree/disagree
type essay of course there are a number
of different question prompts that
you'll see on test day for your IELTS
including a great disagree discussion
give your opinion what are some other
ones problem-solution advantages
disadvantages is this one here the
agree/disagree
is pretty tough let's look at it in more
detail what we're going to do in this
live class is we're gonna aim for IELTS
9 we're gonna aim for an IELTS 9 why not
if we fall a bit short that doesn't
matter
this is an IELTS 9 essay or at least it
should be it has all of the attributes
that you want to aim for to get a very
high score
I've written on topic I've used precise
vocabulary I've used accurate grammar
and I've used a logical structure so I'm
gonna show you how to do that in this
lesson I mean what actually what we're
going to do is write this thing sentence
by sentence so get out a pen and a piece
of paper because there's only one way to
learn how to write an essay and that's
to write an essay so let's do it so the
first thing you need to do on test day
is look carefully at that question
prompt it's going to look something like
this what you can see up here of course
is just the generic information you have
40 minutes down here it says to use
reasons and examples and to write about
250 words at least 250 words so in other
words we need to write more than 250
words what's truly important here there
is this part here this is the question
prompt this is what you need to look at
on test a and this one says this to what
extent do you agree or disagree I'm
going to show you how to write these
types of yes
right fine so what you'll notice about
this question prompt is that it has a
general statement the statement here
says vaccinating children against
preventable diseases is not only
unnecessary but also dangerous let's
think about this general statement first
of all it's just one side of an opinion
somebody is saying to you that
vaccinating your children is dangerous
and unnecessary there is not two sides
of the opinion it's one side of the
opinion and what you have to do is well
you have to do this you have to discuss
the extent to which you agree or
disagree what does that actually mean
discuss the extent to which you agree or
disagree let's think about that because
it's not asking do you agree or disagree
it's saying discuss the extent to which
you agree or disagree we need to get
this right if we're gonna get an IELTS
nine so in my essay that I just showed
you the extent to which I agree or
disagree I've used words like entirely
completely completely an absolute
entirely in other words I've completely
disagreed I've absolutely disagreed but
there are other ways that we can do this
so what we need to do is we need to
think about the extent to which we agree
or disagree as a spectrum a spectrum
here you can imagine somebody completely
agrees and here's the other side of the
argument you completely disagree
here someone moderately agrees and
slightly agrees slightly disagree and
moderately agree this is what this essay
is asking you to do it's saying we're on
that spectrum are you do you completely
agree do you completely disagree do you
somewhat agreed is somewhat disagree
this is what we need to do in this essay
so let's think about this with these
question prompts smoking cigarettes is
good for your health
discuss the extent to which you agree or
disagree
so maybe if you're crazy you might
completely just sorry completely agree
and you might think smoking cigarettes
is great for your health
most people would completely disagree
with this one right that's the extent to
which they disagree they completely
disagree okay fine
what about this question prompt it says
public transport is the best way to get
to work most people probably moderately
agree or maybe slightly agree because
you know public transports busy and
sometimes it's dirty maybe even a bit
dangerous so that's an extent to which
you agree with this one what about if
you were stuck in the desert Coca Cola
would be the best drink well I think
people would sort of either moderately
or completely disagree with this one
that doesn't really make sense what
about if it said if you were stuck in
the desert water would be the best drink
okay I imagine people would sort of
probably completely agree or maybe
moderately agree and say that Gatorade
would be the best I don't know but
anyway then we're back to our one which
vaccinating children against preventable
diseases is not only unnecessary but
also dangerous what I'm going to do in
this essay I'm going to I'm going to
land about here I'm gonna sort of
completely disagree with this but I'm
also gonna add something in here and
you'll and you'll see you'll see what I
mean by that let's think about the essay
structure in an essay structure the
basic structure is like this four
paragraphs introduction paragraph on to
and a conclusion what we're going to do
is well the introductions the
introduction what we're going to do in
this essay to what extent do you agree
or disagree we're going to be
acknowledge side one so this is a hard
essay to write I think this is probably
the hardest one so in our first
paragraph I'm gonna say look I
understand why some people don't want to
vaccinate their children because of
these reasons
then in the second paragraph I'm going
to destroy their logic it's kind of mean
but that's what you need to do so I'm
gonna acknowledge why some parents might
not vaccinate their children that'll be
my first paragraph but then I'm going to
completely disagree or agree with side
two and I'm gonna say give my reasons
why this should be I'll show you in a
second how I do that this is the
structure that we're going to use it's
very similar to the structure that we
saw in the other essays similar to the
structure we saw in the discussion the
other opinion if you haven't seen those
check those out on YouTube as well very
similar structure we're going to write
up sentence by sentence you'll notice
that the introduction and the conclusion
are similar and you'll notice that the
paragraphs are exactly the same so in
fact this structure is easy or quite
easy to remember how do we write the
introduction we need a place to start
we're gonna write sentence one where you
write a general statement based on the
prompt so here's the question prompt
again it says vaccinating children
against preventable diseases is not only
unnecessary but also dangerous what I'm
going to do here is I'm going to write a
general statement so I'm not I'm not
rewriting this in my own words that
comes next what I need to do is sort of
write a bit of a background statement
about this prompt a background statement
a bit of a general statement so what I
in fact wrote was this my general
statement says vaccinating children has
become increasingly unpopular among
certain demographics of society
vaccinating children has become
increasingly unpopular among certain
demographics of society I've written a
general statement based on this what I
want you to do is you're going to do it
on a different question prompt this is
your question prompt it says smacking
children is the best form of discipline
to what extent do you agree or disagree
so one hour
you to do now is write a general
statement based on this prompt here you
have one minute
the background state I should call it a
background statement actually or a
general statement based on this don't
rewrite that sentence yet just write a
background statement let me have a look
at that chat all right what have we got
we've got hmm jason says some people
believe that corporal punishment is the
best way to instill discipline in
children that sometimes as a teacher you
just think life's good
that is a beautiful sentence well done
Smitha says spanking children is an
age-old practice generally followed by
people good fine victor says children's
behavior can be controlled in many ways
but some people choose to use physical
punishment oh you guys are too good
Julie to control our children's behavior
some people use physical punishment
purnima these days that has become
difficult to discipline children great
that's fine that's a general background
statement that's fine physical
punishments discipline children has
become a hot topic of discussion in
recent years clothes good let's go back
so we wrote a general statement now we
want to rewrite that question prompt in
our own words a little bit different
let's look at mine so my question prompt
was vaccinating children against
preventable diseases is not only
unnecessary but also dangerous so what
did I do first I wrote a general
statement vaccinating children has
become increasingly unpopular amongst
certain demographics of society now I
rewrite this in my own words and I've
added a few words here I've said these
people claimed that vaccinations are
hazardous to children's health and as
such a not needed so the idea of being
hazardous is that it's dangerous and not
needed is unnecessary I've added
something here about these people that's
fine you can do that as if
you want but effectively what I have
done for my second sentence is I have
rewritten this in my own words so here
we have a background sentence now I
rewrite that prompt in my own words now
I want you to do it for yours I want you
to rewrite that sentence that smacking
children is the best form of discipline
of course you may want to say that some
people or some parents believe that
smacking children rewrite it in your own
words see how you go
all right let me have a look at some of
the announces so okay I think we need to
start with mmm-hmm I can see what
happened that first sentence really
needs to be a general background
statement about children are becoming
less well behaved or something about
physical punishment has always been
around for a long time something like
that then we move a little bit narrower
and we've rewrite this in our own words
races some people believe that corporal
punishment is necessary to discipline
children excellent
Smitha says some parents believe that
punishing children by spanking is the
best way to discipline their children
good Julie says although one category of
parents can consider this approach is
appropriate I completely disagree with
that not yet we're not giving our
opinion yet first sentence background
statement no opinion second sentence
rewrite the question prompt no opinion
the third sentence which I'll show you
in a second is where we move into our
opinion because we need to build this
essay out we need to start wide and go
in to start broad and then go precise
Suresh says some people believe that
punishment is a good way to grow kids
raise children a good way to raise
children remember this is a formal essay
you need to write victor says for some
parents smacking children is the unit is
that is the some look is the best way
sometimes there's no synonym is the best
way to control and improve the behavior
of their children good let's keep going
here we go so now we move to our opinion
and we say this essay will argue that
will argue why then we move into our
opinion let me read your mind
so first sentence background statement
vaccinating children has become
increasingly unpopular among certain
demographics of society the
people claim that vaccinations are
hazardous to children's health and as
such are not needed of course in the
second month all I did was rewrite that
the third sentence here is my opinion
and this is where I say what the essay
will do this essay will argue why
vaccinating against spreadable diseases
is entirely necessary
despite some potential risks now if we
think about our spectrum I've used this
word here entirely necessary entirely
necessary so I've the extent of my
opinion is clear I have said that
vaccinating children is entirely it's
absolutely necessary I haven't my extent
I've gone right to one end here now you
may want to do that with yours but what
I wanted to do is give your opinion and
think about that spectrum of where you
sit on that spectrum okay
so yours says smacking children is the
best form of discipline what are you
going to argue this essay will argue
that are you going to completely agree
are you going to completely disagree or
are you going to moderately agree
moderately disagree you have one minute
let me check some of these answers this
essay will argue that spanking is not
the best way to discipline children good
that's fine that's fine okay good
that's that's I'm hot totally agrees
that's fine sometimes you just have to
choose even if you don't believe it
sometimes you should just choose what it
was easiest to argue because you just
want to you know it's not a test of your
what you truly believe it's a test of
how well you write in English so if you
are faced with a question prompt this
you know if there's an easy option take
it take it you've got 40 minutes you
don't have four days to to think about
your option there Julia this essay will
discuss the reasons why I completely
disagree with the using physical power
of adults over children while some
people may argue against okay good
that's fine Jason this essay will argue
why corporal punishment is completely
unacceptable
great so on the spectrum of what to what
extent does Jason agree or disagree
he says it's completely unacceptable and
so he's gone right down to that end of
the spectrum excellent good work
let's have a look at the paragraphs we
have just written our introduction mine
says this let me explain to you how I
did it this first sentence I wrote a
general statement about vaccinating
children it has no opinion in it it's
just a background statement setting the
scene for my essay it says vaccinating
children has become increasingly
unpopular amongst certain demographics
of society then I rewrote the question
prompt and I said these people claim
that vaccinations are hazardous to
children's health and as such are not
needed now is there an opinion in this
sentence is there an opinion in this
sentence Nora I just said these people
claim that vaccinations are hazardous to
children's health and as such are not
needed there's no opinion all I did was
rewrite
question prompt then I move into my
opinion by saying this essay will argue
I said this essay will argue why
vaccinating against spreadable diseases
is entirely necessary
despite some potential risks just like
Jason said it's completely unacceptable
I'm saying that vaccinating is entirely
necessary if I look think about the
extent of my agree or disagree I've gone
to the far left or right whatever that
is I'm not sure cool good stuff let's
now think about paragraph one paragraph
one will look like this now this
particular question prompt doesn't have
sides sometimes the question prompt will
say some people believe this and some
people believe that so you've got a red
side and a blue side you've got two
competing or different opinions and
that's kind of easy because your first
paragraph you talk about side one and
your second paragraph you'll talk about
side to this question prompt that we
looked at just had one sign it said
vaccinating children is bad or smacking
children is the best way to discipline
them there's no side to but we need to
sort of think about this a little bit
differently what we want to do in
paragraph one is we want to acknowledge
side one we want to that question prompt
even if we're going to completely
disagree with it
we want to think about reasons why
people might believe that that will be
our paragraph one then we'll say what we
think in paragraph two so let's do that
I'll show you what I mean first thing I
need to do is restate side one so
vaccinating children against preventable
diseases is not only unnecessary but
also dangerous so I'm sort of restating
this changing it a little bit because
I'm going to talk about parents I said
parents have always been wary of
vaccinating their children
vaccinating their children fact what I'm
gonna do I'm gonna skip ahead I'm gonna
show you just bear with me while I do
this I'm gonna show you what this
paragraph looks like and then we'll come
back and do it sentence by sentence okay
so I'm gonna acknowledge these parents
views people who are against
vaccinations so my opening sentence says
parents have always been wary of
vaccinating their children then I'm
going to give a reason they are
justifiably worried about injecting
their children with unfamiliar
substances that could potentially make
them sick
I'm going to give another reason parents
naturally feel protective of their
children I'm going to give an example
indeed there have been some recorded
instances of children unfortunately
reacting adversely to their injections
then I'm going to write a concluding
sentence these few instances have
bolstered existing fears in parents that
vaccinations are not necessary and
potentially more dangerous than the
possibility of contracting the
communicable disease itself this is a
complicated paragraph this is a prompt
it's a hard one to do what I want you to
do is acknowledge the other side of the
argument so what I've done here is I've
said look I understand why some parents
don't want to vaccinate their kids
they're protective over their children
they love their kids and they don't want
the kids being injected with this crazy
stuff who knows what it is and in fact
there have been some examples of kids
getting really sick from vaccinations
and in my last sentence I've said
however despite this love of life so I
want you to acknowledge the other side
of the argument so let's go back to do
it so I said parents have always been
wary of vaccinating their children I
want you to restate the other side of
the argument so if you're against
smacking you should talk about why some
parents believe in smacking for example
you have one minutes
let's have a look at acknowledging the
other side of the argument so Jason says
on the one hand those who believe that
when pain is inflicted physically the
absorption of learning is long-lasting
this means that children will definitely
remember and learn in the long run good
you've acknowledged the other side of
the argument of course in paragraph 2
we're going to destroy their logic and
that's what makes a good essay kudos
says because it will generate negatively
in their behavior missing something this
miss something omus julia says the
parenting style in some families
describes raising children through using
power which can maintain the children's
behavior in a more positive level good
you're acknowledging the other side of
the argument
Smitha says parents think of various
ways to discipline their children good
opening sentence nice short and clear
that's fine sandy says some parents find
smacking the children is the only way to
control their Tantrums good races on the
one hand some parents believe the
children gets spoiled if they do not
have any fear about honey Schmidt
good we've acknowledged that now we're
going to give some reasons why we're
gonna give two reasons and I'll tell you
why we're going to give two reasons is I
just wrote this presentation today and I
thought it was great and I've written
this beautiful essay and I thought well
the structure is perfect fantastic I put
it into Microsoft Word and I did a word
count and it was a hundred and eighty
five words if I submitted this in IELTS
I probably would have got a six not a
nine so today in this one we're going to
give more reasons and more examples
because gonna build up our paragraphs
yes so let's give two reasons or two
examples so here we go I've got two
sentences here giving reasons let me
read you my paragraph parents have
always been wary of vaccinating their
children they are justifiably worried
about injecting the children with um
familiar substances that could
potentially make them sick it's another
reason parents naturally feel protective
of their children so now I want you to
give a reason or two to your paragraph
one right two reasons I'm going to give
you two minutes
all right that's a minute 30 let's have
a look
you want some reasons we acknowledge the
other side of the argument and now we
want reasons why people might think that
OMA says okay it's not quite as proper
sentences affect the child behavior and
become more violent and give him
indication that life is like that good
fine Smitha some parents believe that
the traditional way of disciplining the
children by punishing them is the finest
way good Prasanna says while for some
kids who are timid and generally
obedient a timeout is a good enough
punishment okay I'm not sure what your
paragraphs there that's fine
Lima says as children of this generation
have become too difficult to handle
parents are left with no option then
other than smacking them good Julia says
this can be the only way for them to
control the manners of their children in
addition smacking children can explain
the fact that some parents may be not so
good at bringing children up fine
Prasanna says there are others who are
stubborn and do not relent to easy
punishment Maria says for this reason it
can affect the kid remember this is a
formal essay so we want to say child not
kid words like that are problematic it
can affect the child psychologically in
the long run instead of helping blah
blah blah great we're giving reasons
let's go back to our essay because now
we need to give examples for example for
instance one recent study says 99% of
children smack their parents in whatever
so here we go I've written a an opening
sentence here which acknowledges the
other side of the argument parents have
always been wary of vaccinating their
children fine I've given the reasons why
are they wary of vaccinating their
children well they are justifiably
worried about injecting their children
with unfamiliar substances that could
potentially make them sick what's
another reason they're protective of
their children or parents naturally feel
protective of their children
fine now I write an example indeed there
have been some recorded instances of
children unfortunately reacting
adversely to their injections so the
difference between a reason and example
is not particularly clear what you might
want to do is ask yourself why when you
ask yourself why you're going to come up
with the reason so why a parent's wary
of vaccinating the children or why do
parents smack their children parents
believe that smacking their children is
the best way to educate them or to stop
them from doing something unruly fine
that's why that's a reason and what
about an example for example a parent
might slap a child on the back of the
hand to scare the child or for example a
parent might kind of we're getting into
examples of physical punishment anyway
this is all just fun let's see here we
go give some examples of maybe give some
examples of why they would do it gives
me exempt the punishment itself
anyway you write what you want I'll
check it in a minute
oh right let me check some of these
examples they reasonably point out that
young tip that the younger the younger
generation is more exposed to the world
of crimes than all the times fine well
for some kids over in Iran
kudos they will misbehave with other one
this will lower their mental development
okay fine good example Smitha many
people think that they have grown up to
be responsible adults because of the way
they were discipline is kids okay that
could be an example persona a recent
study shows that about twenty-one
percent of parents in India relent to
corporal punishment because of the
repetitive nature of the children's bad
and unacceptable behavior beautiful now
the question is do you need to refer do
you need to use statistics and research
that is real no not necessarily you have
no access to Google you have no access
to a library you can make up some
statistics that's fine good Julia says a
good example is that some mothers can
easily stop their son or daughter in
order to stopped uncontrolled behaviors
such as using inappropriate words
excellent so there's your example of why
a parent might resort to smacking their
child maybe the kids being rude and so
the parent will resort to smacking the
child love-a-lot good fine let's write
the closing sentence of our paragraph we
need to conclude this side and what we
want to do is just sort of acknowledge
that side one let's go back so opening
sentence parents what I do is I I what
do I do
let's go back I need to check myself
whoops restate side one restate side one
so I mean knowledge until drew I'm
acknowledging this side of the argument
parents have always been wary of
vaccinating their children reason one
they are justifiably worried about
injecting their children with unfamiliar
substances that could potentially make
them sick reason two parents naturally
feel protective of their children
example
indeed there have been some recorded
instances of children unfortunately
reacting adversely to their injections
now I'm going to conclude side one these
few instances have bolstered existing
fears and parents that vaccinations are
not necessary and potentially more
dangerous than the possibility of
contracting the communicable disease
itself so you can see that this sentence
is flown on flowed on to this one here
these few instances is referring back to
people children reacting adversely but
what I've really done here is is I've
sort of said okay so parents have fears
about vaccinations and I've taken it
back to the question prompt let me let
me read this last sentence again these
few instances have bolstered existing
fears in parents that vaccinations are
not necessary and potentially more
dangerous so taken that back to the
question pumped and said okay that's why
parents don't like vaccinating their
kids because I think it's unnecessary
and they think it's dangerous so I've
brought it back to that question from
see if you can do the same thing with
your paragraph you need to conclude side
one whoops you're not going to do
vaccinations though why you're gonna do
why for or against smacking
oh right what am i doing
I'm looking at the chat and I'm seeing
these concluding sentences how you wrap
up and finish your paragraph by linking
back to the question prompt could in
addition to that okay let me try another
one Smith it there are a few reasons why
parents think physical punishment is the
best choice to shape the children's
behavior good oh man moreover smacking
children has been unusable among people
because it is not a civilized action
fine purnima smacking may not be the
best form of discipline but for some
parents it does help to control the
child's behavior excellent kudos as I
said children will be more scared of
their parents than respecting them good
ray therefore these parents believe that
smacking children will help to
discipline them good
Prasanna this suggests why some parents
resort to inflicting pain on children to
reinforce good behavior excellent let's
now look at my paragraph beginning from
beginning to end sir what I need to do
is I need to restate why for me why some
parents don't believe in vaccinations
and that's because they're wary of
vaccinating their children now I need to
give a reason why they're wary and I say
they're wary because it could
potentially make them sick now I need to
think of another reason because I need
to make my paragraph longer I say
parents are protective of their children
I need to give an example and I say
there are some recorded instances of
adverse reactions to injections then I
conclude this by saying these few
instances have bolstered existing fears
in parents that vaccinations are not
necessary potentially more dangerous bla
bla bla bla bla that's linked back to
the question prompt fine how do we write
paragraph two it's exactly the same as
paragraph one this thing's going to die
what's going on it's exactly the same as
paragraph one but now what we do and
this is the fun part we destroy the
other argument through
good thinking and good writing so we've
acknowledged side one we said okay
look I understand my parents might
believe there so I understand my parents
might smack their children or I
understand why people should be able to
smoke in public however now we bring out
the big guns and we shoot down the other
side and we win the war of the argument
let's see how I did that
here's my paragraph - it's the same
structure so I have restated side - and
I've said despite the minor risks
associated with vaccinating children the
idea that they are unnecessary and
dangerous the idea that vaccinations are
unnecessary and dangerous and here's my
my spectrum opinion is completely
preposterous and now I give a reason why
vaccines have prevented vast numbers of
deaths over hundreds of years in
countries around the world give me
another reason the number of deaths so
far prevented far outweighs the number
of children who have been adversely
affected by the immunizations themselves
I'm an example some diseases have
actually been completely eradicated
through vaccination campaigns wrap this
paragraph up overall the idea that
vaccinations are unnecessary and
dangerous is ill informed and dangerous
in itself and could potentially lead to
a far worse outcome for society I've
acknowledged their arguments in the
first paragraph in this second paragraph
I pull out all of my belief and
knowledge and I go ppppp and I destroy
it well yeah so you can write your
paragraph too in your own time you may
want to pause the video now and write
your paragraph too for now though we're
gonna move to the conclusion I'm going
to show you how to write a very strong
conclusion how to write the conclusion
now this is just going to be a
two-sentence conclusion and it will say
this essay argued that why sentence 2
we're going to give our opinion and
we're going to use the spectrum the
extent so this is a argued that now on a
wait wait wait wait wait I don't know if
you remember but in our introduction I
don't know if you can see this it says
this essay will argue why
so in our conclusion we say they say so
argued why you've got a past tense verb
here we've got a future tense verb will
argue to argued this is logic this is
essay logic this essay will argue why
bla bla bla bla bla in your conclusion
this is a argued why bla bla bla bla bla
so here in the introduction we tell the
reader what we will tell them and here
we tell them what we told them
that's good essay here we go so this
essay argued that or why this essay
argued that people who are against
vaccinations have a flawed understanding
of vaccinations and underestimate the
effects of what they believe this is a
tough essay to write I've said this a
few times but I do believe that this
extent questioned the extent to which
you agree or disagree is the toughest
one the other ones the other ones are
more formulaic the other ones are more
sentence by sentence this one requires a
bit more a bit more lateral thinking it
requires you to be a bit more hmm
need to think a bit more deeply to get
this right this one definitely requires
practice that's what I'm trying to say
this essay type requires practice better
than that this essay type requires
feedback let me explain what I mean here
if you're paid a to language comm
remember you'll know what I mean but if
you go to WWE to language dot-com you
can if you want get feedback on your
says written feedback as well as
tutorials with expert teachers this is
something that you need to do if you
want to get a high IELTS score if you're
stuck in IELTS check out the website
we can help you out require practice
essay questions more than that you
require feedback maybe even two
one-on-one tutorials on your writing
anyway your turn this essay argued that
what did your essay argue and you're not
giving your opinion yet you're just
restating your main arguments
all right let's have a look at some of
these ah her name I'll get to questions
in a second Jason this essay argued why
physical punishment is scientifically
proven to be unacceptable great oh man
this essay argued that those parents who
use smacking who smack their children
should be thought again should think
again about their violence good Julia in
conclusion comma this essay argued that
smacking children is absolutely
inappropriate while some people still
punish children physically yeah kudos
this essay argued that smacking children
can make can make take coward and
frightened which lead them to do behave
negatively okay you definitely need to
take a tutorial there ray this essay
argued by punishing children corporately
is completely unacceptable
beautiful persona this essay argued that
instilling good behavior through
physical punishment is not only
irrational but can also lead to bad
consequences Maria says in conclusion
this essay argued that punishing
children physically through smacking is
the best method to discipline them okay
good now we need to move on to giving
our opinion so let's see how we do that
give your opinion or the extent to which
you agree or disagree now I just have to
pause this for a second because the
alarm is gonna go off
right I'm back Sarah let's see let's see
let's see so what did I do
I did this I said this essay argued that
people who are against vaccination have
a flawed and understanding of
vaccinations and underestimate the
effects of what they believe now I give
my opinion in my opinion vaccinating
children is an absolute imperative that
is entirely justified despite the small
and occasional risk involved so here it
says to what extent do you agree or
disagree with this and I've basically
completely disagreed with it why do I
actually believe that no I don't
actually believe that my opinion is a
bit more nuanced than that but on test
day with 40 minutes and a grey LED
pencil and a piece of paper I can't
really tell I'm just gonna choose the
easiest option and often the easiest
option in this type of essay is to
completely agree or completely disagree
so maybe you want to think about that
one cool so what did I do
well I I completely disagreed with that
prompts there so what are you going to
do smacking children is the best form of
discipline to what extent do you agree
or disagree in my opinion I blah blah
blah you have one minutes
all right let's have a look kudos I'll
get to that in a second yes you can
partially agree and partially disagree
it just probably makes it a bit harder
yes it depends on the question prompts
you can't Smitha in my opinion
physically punishing children is
definitely not the correct method to
discipline them excellent the word
definitely puts you on the spectrum at
this end and that's a good thing to do
because you've answered the question to
what extent do you agree well you
definitely agree or you definitely don't
agree Jason says I believe that children
who were punished physically will
manifest psychological alterations when
they grow up
full-stop thus , I totally disagree with
corporal punishment good to what extent
do you disagree you totally disagree
good Janny in my opinion I totally
disagree that inflicting physical
punishment on children is the best way
to discipline them good Omar I totally
disagree as that would affect the
children's behavior and their
personality good ray
I believe corporal punishment is
definitely not the method to discipline
children Maria says it's entirely
unacceptable beautiful I love this this
is good this is good this is answering
the question let's have a look at what
that all means I'm gonna skip that I'm
going to show you my full essay this is
254 words 254 words this is what your
essay should look like on test day
should be four paragraphs what you
really need to do in this type of essay
this is a hard one
you need to pad out your paragraphs you
need to make your paragraphs about six
sentences long you
to give what you need to give two
reasons or two examples because what's
gonna happen is these are gonna be about
50 words sorry that's not true your
introduction will be about 40 words your
conclusion will be about 40 words what's
that 80 so even if even if this is 50
and this is 50 that's only gonna be 180
words you don't want to write 180 words
you need your paragraphs to be about 70
or even 80 words long I'm not gonna do
the mathematics there but you understand
what I'm saying
you need long paragraphs so build your
paragraphs make them larger by adding
more reasons and more examples yeah it's
hard to do because you don't have a word
count you have to count the words
yourself 254 words why would this essay
get an IELTS 9 why well first of all I
wrote on topic everything written here
relates back to the question prompt
about vaccinating children everything I
have not written off topic and I've not
written off topic because I follow this
sequence of sentences everything here if
you follow that sentence by sentence
structure it makes you write on topic
you cannot write off topic if you follow
that structure it's really important
cool why else is an IELTS 9 well I've
used precise vocabulary let's have a
look at the first at the two paragraphs
for example I've seen I've used words
like wary justifiably potentially
recorded instances not necessary I've
said communicable disease I've got good
vocabulary in here I've said
preposterous that's a beautiful
adjective what else have I got
I've said vaccination campaigns that's a
nice noun phrase
I've said I've said minor risks that's a
nice little adjective noun phrase as
well so I've used good vocabulary what
about grammar well my grandma is in fact
well perfect almost perfect have been
I've used a present perfect verb here
I've used a variety of verbs I've used
correct prepositions etc all my grammar
is looking good again it's about
feedback if you want to improve what
about this one this is the key to
writing good essays and it's using a
logical structure the structure is the
thing that I just showed you before cool
that's all yeah this one was a little
bit tricky if you want to watch some of
my other video videos do that because
they're they're a bit simpler to follow
do you need to practice this what you'll
notice is that the structure that I've
taught in each of the videos is slightly
different for each essay but even if you
go even if you learn this structure not
even a hundred percent but at least you
have an idea of how to structure your
introduction your paragraphs your
conclusion at least on test day even if
you're under pressure you'll still be
able to write something formulate
something that has a decent structure
and that's important if you want to get
really good like if you're really
looking for an IELTS 8 for example you
probably need some help do check out the
website right now though I'm gonna go to
Q&A so I'm gonna yes yes yes yes yes yes
yes
let me go to Q&A where are you people
let me answer some questions Julia Jay
in this type of essay I need to state my
opinion just twice once in the
introduction and once in the conclusion
is that enough yes that's enough in the
introduction you say what your opinion
will be like this essay will discuss why
bla bla bla bla in the conclusion you
say this
as they discussed or argued why in my
opinion so you're given your opinion in
the introduction your opinion in the
conclusion your paragraphs also contain
your opinion but just not explicitly
said remember what we did we we we
acknowledge the other argument but then
we destroyed it in the second paragraph
so in fact you're giving your opinion
but just not explicitly in your
paragraphs Purnima is IELTS writing task
2 similar to PT right si interestingly
PT write essay is an argumentative essay
it's pretty in fact they have a question
prompt very similar to this in PT the
good thing about PT right now say is
that they're all argumentative they're
all the same in IELTS they're like six
different question prompt types so
personally I think IELTS writing is more
difficult than PT writing however PT
speaking is more difficult than IELTS
speaking so you make the decision about
which one you want to do Maria what if
my structure is good but the rest is
just right well they get AB and seven
well what they do Maria is they look at
those four things we look at did you
write on topic and then give you between
an IELTS four and an IELTS nine so they
say Maria she wrote on topic perfectly
IELTS nine then they look at your
vocabulary and they give you a score
between four and nine and they say
Maria's vocabulary was seven so now
you're nine and seven so your average
score is 8 so now you're an IELTS paint
then they look at your grammar and they
do it between four and nine and they say
Oh Maria's grammars only a five so your
scores going to drop down to a six point
five for example so you need to get good
at all of them then they look at the
structure finally so the four things you
need to work on did you write on topic
did you use good vocabulary do you use
accurate grammar and did you use a good
structure you want all of those things
to increase
to get a high score Smitha for giving
examples can we use quotations that are
not true you can use quotations but the
problem with quotations is that you have
to use the correct punctuation the
correct quotation marks don't risk it
just say for example for instance or a
statistic 99% of people believe that
persona is asking about IELTS yes IELTS
general and IELTS academic both use the
same question types the IELTS academic
will be slightly harder than the IELTS
general in writing tasks to Ponemah what
should be the word count of each
paragraph and what if we don't meet 250
words that's a good question
your introduction in your conclusion
will be about 40 try and make them 40 to
50 words your paragraphs must be longer
than your introduction conclusion that's
why you'll add more reasons and more
examples boost them up to 70 words so
you're gonna have 70 and seventies 140
and then if you're at 50 and 50 you're
gonna write 240 you're gonna be close
make sure you write over 250 words
because you will lose marks if you write
below 250 words so what you need to do
is extend your sentences while you're
writing them you want to write a mixture
of short simple sentences and longer
complex sentences but when you're
writing just think about how you can
extend the length of your sentences yeah
cool all right I think that's it I'm
exhausted I think I'm gonna go home I'm
gonna go to bed thank you very much for
coming I appreciate it I hope this is
helpful if you need any more help check
out the other videos wherever they are
I'll see you guys soon thank you very
much
[Music]
you